Adding docs for encrypted sessions (#56325)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/enroll-resources/server-access/guides/encrypted-session-recordings.mdx

---
title: Encrypted Session Recordings
description: Encrypt session recordings using your CA key backend
labels:
  - how-to
  - zero-trust
---

Encrypted Session Recordings were added to allow Teleport users to enable
at-rest encryption of their session recording data.

## How it works

When encrypted recordings are enabled, Teleport will encrypt session recording
data before saving it to disk or long term storage. Encryption keys are
provisioned using the same key storage backend configured for CAs defined by
the `ca_key_params` section of the Teleport Auth Service configuration file. In
`node-sync` and `proxy-sync` session recording modes, session recording events
are sent directly to the Teleport Auth Service where they are encrypted prior
to being written to long term storage. In `node` and `proxy` session recording

> modes, session recording events are encrypted locally at the node or proxy

Author: It does, yeah. I updated it to use that language, but let me know if it should be something else

Service configuration file or by modifying the `session_recording_config`
resource dynamically using `tctl`.

You can edit the Auth Service configuration file as follows:

```yaml
# snippet from teleport.yaml
auth_service:
  session_recording_config:
    encryption:
      enabled: yes
```

You can also edit the `session_recording_config` resource using
`tctl edit session_recording_config`:

```yaml
# snippet from session_recording_config
spec:
  encryption:
    enabled: yes
```

If you are already configuring session recording through the configuration file
it is recommended that you enable encryption there as well, as modifications
made through `tctl` will be overwritten when the Teleport Auth Service
restarts.

### Optional step: Configure key storage backend

Session recording encryption keys are provisioned using the same key storage
backend configured for CAs. Software keys stored in Teleport's backend storage
are the default, but other backends can also be configured:

- [AWS KMS](../../../zero-trust-access/deploy-a-cluster/aws-kms.mdx)
- [Google Cloud KMS](../../../zero-trust-access/deploy-a-cluster/gcp-kms.mdx)
- [HSM](../../../zero-trust-access/deploy-a-cluster/hsm.mdx)

> It is important that all Teleport Auth Services have access to the same keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important that all Teleport Auth Service instances have access to the same keys
```
For consistency with the rest of the docs

and key storage backend to ensure all recorded sessions are always replayable.

## Step 2/2. Confirm new recordings are encrypted

It is possible to confirm that session recordings are now encrypted by
capturing a new recording and downloading the resulting `.tar` file from your

> [audit sessions backend](../../../reference/architecture/session-recording.mdx#storage).

Reviewer: We typically advise against including links in the bodies of how-to guides unless following them has a clear objective related to the objective of the guide. In this case, this link does not have a clear objective, so I suggest we remove it.

Replaying the session file directly with `tsh play` should fail and replaying
using the session ID should succeed.

> ## Manual Encryption Key Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manual encryption key management
```
Per the docs style guide, we use sentence case in headings

<Admonition type="note">
Manual encryption key management places all responsibility and complexity of
managing keys on the administrator. This comes with much more risk of a
misconfiguration impacting Teleport's ability to record or replay sessions.
It's for this reason that Teleport Cloud does not allow use of manual
encryption key management. Consider using the default automatic key management
unless your usage explicitly requires manual key management.
</Admonition>

By default, Teleport will automatically provision and manage session recording
encryption keys. However there may be cases where automatic management is not
possible or desired, such as environments where Teleport lacks sufficient
privileges to manage keys directly. For this reason, Teleport can be configured
to use externally managed keys.

### Configuration

```yaml
# snippet from session_recording_config
encryption:
  enabled: yes
  manual_key_management:
    enabled: yes
    active_keys:
      - type: pkcs11
        label: 'session_recordings_002'
    rotated_keys:
      - type: pkcs11
        label: 'session_recordings_001'
```

> This example enables `manual_key_management` with one active key and one

Reviewer: I would put this paragraph before the snippet so the user knows why we're including it.

backend and each have their own label used to identify the keys within the HSM.

Teleport will search the HSM for the keys described in both `active_keys` and
`rotated_keys`. The active keys will be used during encryption and replay of
any new session recordings. The rotated keys will be used during replay of
historical session recordings, but will not be used during any encryption
operations.

As mentioned previously, it is important that all Teleport Auth Services
have access to the same keys. Degraded availability of replays should be
expected if unshared keys are used.

<Admonition type="warning">
Session recording encryption relies on a form of envelope encryption using OAEP
with 4096-bit RSA key pairs. This means RSA 4096 is the only key type eligible
for use with `manual_key_management`. It is also important that these keys are
permitted to be used for decryption. What this means varies per key storage
backend, but generally must be defined when the key is first provisioned.
</Admonition>

## Key rotation

Session recording encryption keys are rotated using `tctl`. Rotation is a two
phase process that requires initiating a rotation and then completing the

> rotation. It is also possible to rollback an in-progress rotation in the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rotation. It is also possible to roll back an in-progress rotation in the event
```
"rollback" is a noun while "roll back" is the verb phrase

that the previous key state needs to be restored.

> ## Step 1/3. Initiate a rotation

Reviewer: We generally don't want to include multiple sets of "Step..." H2s within a single guide, since this makes the structure a little convoluted. Would it make sense to split up this guide into its own subsection of the documentation, e.g., in `docs/pages/enroll-resources/server-access/encrypted-session-recordings/rotation.mdx`?
